# Open Source Tooling Group F2F Meeting

This document summarises the in person meeting and its outcomes from the Open Source Tooling Group on October 10th 2019.

## Location

European Space Operations Centre
European Space Agency ESA/ESOC
Robert-Bosch-Str. 5
64293 Darmstadt, Germany

Room Goethe

online: circuit://circuit.siemens.com/guest?token=1c2527a2-444e-4dc0-ab68-7be8bd8efcb4

## Attendees

In the room, in seating order:

| Person | e-mail |
| --- | --- |
| Arun | arun.azakhezan@siemens-heathineers.com |
| Frances | frances.paulisch@siemens-heathineers.com |
| Andreas | andreas.isenmann@vega.com |
| Michael | michael.hornung@salt-solutions.de |
| Kalle | kalle.soranko@verifa.io |
| Ben | bmarsden@verifa.io |
| Martin | Martin.vonWillebrand@hhpartners.fi |
| Matthew | matthew.crawford@arm.com |
| Jean-Christophe | jean-christophe.berton@esa.int |
| Peter | Peter.Ellsiepen@esa.int |
| Michael (me) | michael.c.jaeger@siemens.com |
| Lars | lars.geyer-blaumeiser@bosch-si.com |
| Stefan | stefan.gustafsson@sap.com |
| Jan | jan.thielscher@eacg.de |
| Jeffrey | jeffrey.shi@sap.com |

On telco, via conf call:

| Person | e-mail |
| --- | --- |
| Helio | helio.chissini-de-castro@bmw.de |
| Marcel | marcel.kurzmann@bosch-si.com  |
| Monika | monika.schnizer@ts.fujitsu.com |
| Thomas | thomas.steenbergen@here.com |
| Hama Kouka | kouki1.hama@toshiba.co.jp |
| Takuya Koda | takuya.koda@toshiba.co.jp |
| Maximilian Huber | maximilian.huber@tngtech.com |
| Philippe Ombredanne | pom@nexb.com |

# Agenda and Action Items

## Agenda

(see slides)

* Introduction
* Updates on Integration
* Updates on Tools
* Tooling Big Picture Versin 2.0
* Use cases
* Update from Double Open
* Update from FINOS
* Wrap up

## Action Items

News Items:

| Volunteering Person | Item |
| --- | --- |
| Michael J. | incvite for call on component naming guidelines |
| Michael J. | creating new picture as resulting form this session |
| Marcel, Frances, Peter | coordinate to exchange and peer-review BPMN / use case files |
| Philippe | check if room on Friday before FOSDEM 2020 conference (Sat, Sun) can be found to have next face 2 face meeting in Bruseels on Jan 31st |

Ongoing last meeting:

| Volunteering Person | Item |
| --- | --- |
| Michael P., Lars, Michael J. | invite Peter and Andreas to present existing material |
| Oliver  | Review SPDX Spec for updating the data model terms |

# Notes on the Meeting

(raw notes from notable items from discussion)

## Introduction

* 0915 general introduction to the location
* 0920 Starting introduction of every participant

## Updates on Tools

* 0940 Integration demo: SW360antenna and SW360
* 1010 Integration demo: Conan, O.R.T. and SW360
* 1040 Updates on FOSSology and SW360

## Coffee break

* 1110 Questions on Tools
(see picture)

## Lunch

* 1200 Lunch at on site restaurant
* 1300 Guided tour at European Space Operations Centre

## Updates on Tools (Continued)

* 1340 Answering questions for FOSSology and SW360

## Tooling Big Picture

* 1420 (see picture and slides)
* going through each tool and trying to assign it
* **TODO:** Michael creating new picture as resulting form this session

## Use Cases

* 1440 (separate slide set)
* First two use cases there
* Group is asked to feedback in order to confirm direction (use case presentation format) is useful
* Discussion about that "use case" can be confusing because it is used for describing the use of open source components
* Proposal is to call it "Compliance Use Cases"
* One remark is that maybe open source toolign also refers to painting BPMN diagrams, consider Camunda
* **Group Agreement:** BPMN XML format is used for creating the diagrams and PNG, idea is to start with Camunda sotware
* **TODO:** Marcel, Peter and Frances coordinate to exchange and peer-review BPMN / use case files

## Double Open

* 1540 (separate slide set)
* general information about double Open
* work on the review of license findings carried out
* especially guidelines for license conclusions would support exchange of spdx documents

## FINOS Updates

* 1610 (separate slide set)
* FINOS: foundation for OSS, one larger groups of members from finance industry
* several programs to support OSS license compliance
* Among this: the open source compliance handbook, https://www.finos.org/open-source-license-compliance-handbook-download-page

## General Conference Activities

* showing the sessions on upcoming EclipseCon Europe
* showing the sessions on upcoming Open Source Summit EU
* proposing to make a submission to he upcoming FOSDEM 2020

## Wrap Up

1630 Closing and Wrap up

* Review of action items
* Next telco as scheduled
* Discussed next face-to-face meeting time and location
  * Next meeting will be difficult before Christmas
  * **Group Agreement:** Date is Friday 31st of Jan, could be colocated at FOSDEM 2020 in Brussels
  * **TODO:** Philippe volunteers to check if room can be organised
